# Meeting 27 September 2021

## Actions
- [ ] **Lucia and Mario** : to look at using OWL camera for one of these meetings as a demonstration. Suggest October.
- [ ] **Mario and any others**: If you teach the updated Git lesson with SSH, bring your feedback to this group next month.

## About 



During these meetings, we will be conforming to [The Carpentries Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).

**Regular calls: 4th Monday of the month, 16:00-17:00 UK time**

**Meeting details are shared via [local-uk mailing list](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/local-uk) and [The Carpentries community calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events).**

**Community's HackMD workspace: https://hackmd.io/team/local-uk?nav=overview**
**Previous meetings: https://hackmd.io/V3ReKkEESzqyCNxWJdulOw#Meetings**


## Meeting Minutes
**Time:** 16:00 (BST)

**Location:** Zoom URL: https://zoom.us/j/95360073649

**Chair:** Mario Antonioletti

**Timekeeper:**
**Notetaker:** 

### Agenda

0. Sign in & ice-breaker
1. Assign notetaker & timekeeper
2. Announcements - please add your own
    - [SSI Fellowship 2022 Call](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/ssi-fellowship-programme-2022)
    - [SSI Research Software Camps](https://software.ac.uk/research-software-camps)
        - The next [Research Software Camp: Beyond the Spreadsheet](https://software.ac.uk/RSCamp-beyond-spreadsheet) will take place from 1 to 12 November 2021
        - [Call for content proposals is currently open](https://www.software.ac.uk/news/call-content-proposals-research-software-camp-beyond-spreadsheet-0)
4. Actions from last time 
5. Round robin
    - what questions or issues do you have?
6. [Chairing rota](https://hackmd.io/3yKzVlo5SMWOEzO40sz_Tw)



### Sign-in

Write your name and what good ice-breakers have you come across?

1. 
2. 
3. 
...

### Notes