# Meeting 24 May 2021

## About 

This is the UK Carpentry Community space:
- for the UK Carpentry instructors, helpers and workshop coordinators (or anyone involved in training tech to researchers in general and outside of the UK) to get to know each other better and encourage collaboration
- to get the community's questions answered and provide help with technical aspects of creating Carpentry workshop websites, registering workshops with the Carpentries, Carpentry institutional membership or anything else 
- to help the community in the UK with organising workshops and finding instructors/helpers
- to provide a welcoming and inclusive environment for the community to share their experience, explore topics of interest, find collaborators for training related projects and network.

During these meetings, we will be conforming to [The Carpentries Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html).

**Regular calls: 4th Monday of the month, 16:00-17:00 UK time**

**Meeting details are shared via [local-uk mailing list](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/local-uk) and [The Carpentries community calendar](https://carpentries.org/community/#community-events).**

**Community's HackMD workspace: https://hackmd.io/@local-uk**
**Previous meetings: https://hackmd.io/V3ReKkEESzqyCNxWJdulOw#Meetings**


## Useful Links and Resources
- Carpentries UK Community mailing list [local-uk](https://carpentries.topicbox.com/groups/local-uk) 
- Carpentries UK Community [slack channel](https://swcarpentry.slack.com/archives/CLE8WUGMA) within [The Carpentries Slack Workspace](https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/)
- [Carpentries Code of Conduct](https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html)
- Connect with the [general Carpentries community](https://carpentries.org/connect/) - twitter, mailing lists, blog, slack, community calendar
- [Carpentries Handbook](https://docs.carpentries.org/index.html) - a comprehensive resource for all things Carpentries 
- [Carpentries workshop FAQ](https://carpentries.org/workshop_faq/)
- [Carpentries Blog](https://carpentries.org/blog/)

## Meeting Minutes
**Time:** 
**Location:** Zoom URL: https://zoom.us/j/95360073649

**Chair:** Aleks Nenadic

**Notetaker:** Shashank S Harivyasi

### Agenda
0. Assign notetaker - 1 min
1. Sign in - 1 min
2. Announcements - 6 min
    - ['UK Carpentries' GitHub organisation](https://github.com/uk-carpentries) - join now!
        - Useful for hosting workshop repos that do not have a 'natural' location
        - For backing up minutes from the community calls (currently being backed up to https://github.com/anenadic/local-uk)
3. Vote on the issues below - 7 min:
    - **Should we have a separate 'UK Carpentries' Slack workspace?** For example, we could host individual channels for UK workshops there (very usefull for teams that have instructors from different institutions). Note that there is local-uk channel under Carpenties Slack workspace for general discussions but we cannot overload this workspace with individual workshop channels.
        - Yes
        - No
    - **Should we try to rename the [community's HackMD space](https://hackmd.io/@local-uk) to 'UK Carpentries' for consistency with the organisation on GitHub**? (Not sure if that will affect the links to the workspace.)
        - Yes +++ 1+1+1+1+
        - No 

4. Breakout room skill-ups and discussions - ~30 min

- **Breakout 1 (facilitator: Aleks N): Carpentry workshop website creation skill-up** +1
- **Breakout 2 (facilitator: Lucia): Carpentry workshop organisation help/Q&A** +1
- **Main room (facilitator Alex K):** general discussion for people not wanting to join any breakout. Suggested topics: ++1+1 +1+1
    - What one thing would you like to share with others (this could be a good resource on training, software, community or something else related to work)?
    - What skills would you like to learn or improve over the next year?
5. Wrap-up/report back/AOB - 5 min

### Sign-in

Name/pronoun if you like/ institution

1. Aleks Nenadic / she, her / Software Sustainability Institute, University of Manchester
2. Colin Sauze / he, him / Aberystwyth University + Supercomputing Wales
3. Sarah Gibson / she, her / t: @drsarahlgibson gh: @sgibson91
4. Shashank S Harivyasi / he,him / University of Leeds
5. Margarida Madeira e Moura /She, her/ Computer Science teacher, Universidade do Algarve, Portugal / :bird:@mmcsamcm
7.  David Pérez-Suárez / he-him-his/ RSE / UCL and SSI Fellow / 🐙🐱@dpshelio 🐦@dvdgc13 🐘@dvdgc13@octodon.social /
8. Mario Antonioletti /he, him/ Software Sustainability Institute, EPCC, The University of Edinburgh/:octopus:@marioa, :bird:@marioant
9. Juan Herrera / he, him / EPCC, The University of Edinburgh / :bird: [@JFR_Herrera](https://twitter.com/JFR_Herrera)
10. Jannetta Steyn / she, her / Newcastle University / 
11. Fran Baseby / she, her / University of Edinburgh g: @FranBaseby
12. Graham Blyth /he, him / Library / University of Leeds
13. Lucia Michielin /she, her/ CDCS University of Edinburgh   
14. Nilani Ganeshwaran / she,her / University of Manchester Library 
15. Domhnall Carlin /he him/ RSE Fellow/ Queen's University Belfast (Apologies- zoom isn't connecting)
16. Alexander Konovalov /he him/ Lecturer / School of Computer Science, University of St Andrews

### Notes
- The Carpentries are currently not recording workshops that are not official cirriculum yet e.g. Intro to HPC.
- Round of Introductions:
    - Aleks, Colin, Sarah, Shashank, Margarida, David, Mario, Juan, Jannetta, Fran, Graham, Lucia, Nilani, Domhnall, Alex
- Tip: don't use BO rooms in MS Teams, use side channels instead. Place all the documents alongside the channel.
- Using the new (UK Carpentries GH)[https://github.com/uk-carpentries] to create workshop pages that are local to UK but don't have a natural home.
- Item 3 on Agenda: Should we have a separate 'UK Carpentries' Slack workspace?
    - Problem: Limit of 10K messages/workspace
    - Potential solutions:
        - Using 'throwaway' slack workspaces
        - Linking with Matrix to keep the history
    - Problem: Need to know that a workspace exists, invite links need to be sent
    - **Action for Alex**: Can SSI pay for a paid community plan for Slack
    - Alternative: Using Gitter
        - Needs GH, or similar logins
    - Will re-visit next meeting
- Item 3 on Agenda:
    - Should we try to rename the [community's HackMD space](https://hackmd.io/@local-uk): passed
    - **Action for Aleks**: will do the renaming and inform if links get broken
- BO room sessions:
    - Main room: Mario, Shashank Colin, Sarah, Juan, David, Alex, Graham, Domhnall
        - Useful tools that were discussed: cryptpad.fr, framapad, shell-share, etherpad-cli
            - https://carpentries.org/blog/2020/04/ucl-first-online-git-workshop/
            - https://github.com/rgaiacs/swc-shell-split-window/
        - Larger (>100 learner) workshops
            - https://coderefinery.org/blog/2020/07/31/mega-coderefinery/
            - peristant helpers in BO
            - people prepend their names with pre-assigned BO room numbers
            - a DJ to move people around
        - Translation of lesson materials
            - Portugese, Spanish, Italian etc.
            - More activity on international slack channel
            - a YT video that documents the translation process exits
    - BO room 1: Aleks, Margarida
    - BO room 2: Jannetta, Lucia

- Meeting ended: 17:00